Chapter 1 Summer in the city

They say if you don't like the heat, get out of the kitchen. New York, mid-July, if you don't like the heat. get out of the city. Anyone who could take a vacation was in the mountains or on Long Island. Anywhere coolerthan the city. But me, I had work to do and dollars toearn. As I left my apartment building in Queens, the heathit me. The temperature was already up in the eighties. Only seven o'clock in the morning and I was sweating. It was going to be another one of those hot, uncomfortable days. Time to catch the number seven train to Manhattan. 

The name's Marley, Nat Marley. I know the city ofNew York like the back of my hand. New York is partof me; it's in my blood. During my fifteen years' servicewith the New York Police Department, I saw the best and worst of life in the city. After leaving the NYPD, Ibecame a private investigator. Although I don't make that much money, I'm my own boss and I don't have to takeorders from anybody. I prefer it that way. 

At Grand Central Station, crowds of office workershurried out to 42nd Street. There were usually a fewhomeless people in the station trying to make a fewdollars before the police moved them along. When youmake the same trip every day, you get to know people'sfaces. But today, I couldn't see any homeless people. Maybe they were out in the sunshine on 42nd Street. 

Suddenly a voice called out, “Hey, Nat, don't you recognize me? 

I turned around. There was an old woman in anexpensive-looking coat and skirt. It was Annie, a realNew York character: one of the homeless people I'dknown since I was a patrolman with the NYPD“Do you like my coat, Nat? I found it in the trash. “A winter coat in July? You must be boiling. I like thecoat, but you don't look too great, Annie.” 

“I'm OK, Nat. Anyway, a winter coat's valuable so itstays with me, sunshine or snow” 

I looked at her closely. There was something differentabout her. I couldn't say what exactly. But she hadchanged. 

Sure you're feeling all right, Annie?” 

“Me. Nat? Never felt better.” 

Maybe she was just exhausted from trying to earn aliving on the streets at her age. But something told me lshould stay around. 

“I'll buy you breakfast. Coffee and doughnuts?” l

offered. Annie took my arm as we made our way toward themain entrance. Suddenly she pulled at my jacket. “Hey, not so fast, Nat. Just give me a minute. It's thispain in my chest” 

I looked at her closely. The sweat was pouring off herface. We hadn't walked far, but she was out of breath. Sheheld my hand tightly. Her skin felt cold. 

Oh my God!” she cried. 

She reached for her chest, her eyes and mouth wideopen in pain. Then she fell at my feet, unconscious. Aheart attack. I felt her wrist. There was no pulse. Therewas no movement from her chest either. She wasn't breathing. I didn't have time to think. All that NYPDtraining came back to me. First the breathing. Head backhold the nose, open mouth, check the airway. Close mylips over the mouth, Breathe out, pause, and again. Thenboth hands on her chest. Push down. Again, fifteen times. 

I looked up at the circle of people around us. “Someone call 911. Get an ambulance! Anyone heredone first aid training?” I asked. A guy stepped forward nervously. “Ive just taken afirst aid course,” he said. 

“Start with the breathing, then we'll change over. We worked on her for five long minutes. I felt Annie'swrist again. This time there was a pulse. And then somemovement in her chest. At last, I heard the sound of theambulance siren. 

The ambulance men took over and put Annie in theambulance waiting on 42nd Street, I knew someone likeher wouldnt have health insurance. 

You taking her to Bellevue Hospital?” I asked. Yeah.” 

Here's my card. Any questions about hospital bills. tell them to call me.” 

How I would actually pay any hospital bills wasanother m益佑秤atter. 

A police officer came over to interview me. As soon ashe left me, a reporter from the Daily News ran up to me. “Can I ask a few questions, sir? This is going to be agreat story.” 

I didn't mind. The story might be good for business. From Grand Central, it was five minutes’walk tomy office at 220 East 43rd Street. Most offices in thebuilding had their own air conditioning. Mine didn't, so it was hot and uncomfortable. 

It was very quiet in the office when I arrived. Nosurprises there. Business is usually quiet in July. Evenbad guys take vacations. 

Stella Delgado, my personal assistant, was already ather desk. She looked tired and annoyed. 

Nat, when are we going to get air conditioning?” sheasked. “It's impossible to work. And look at the sweat on

your shirt!” “I've been on my knees at Grand Central” I said. *saving an old lady's life. That's hard work in this heat.” I told Stella what had just happened. She stoppedcomplaining about the heat. 

“Let's go and see how she is, she suggested. New York private investigators don't normally usepublic transportation. But I'm different. Stella and I tooka number 15 bus downtown on Second Avenue thenwalked one block east to the hospital on First Avenue. lintroduced myself to the receptionist. 

“The name's Nat Marley. Im a close friend of AnnieClayton's. She's just been admitted to the emergencyroom. We have to see her, miss. You see ...” 99

“Sorry. Family only in the emergency room,” thereceptionist said. 

“Look, miss. She's more like family to me than myown wife." I said. 

That was true. I hadn't seen much of Mrs. Marleysince the divorce. 

“I’ll call the emergency room and see what they say, replied the receptionist. 

We were allowed to visit Stella and I waited outsidean examination room where a doctor was checking Annie's heart. Eventually the doctor came out andintroduced herself. 

“Mr. Marley? I'm Dr. Fischer. The rules say familyonly in here, but this is a special case. So you're the guywho saved Mrs Clayton at Grand Central? You did agood job there.” 

“Is she going to be all right, Doctor?” I asked. Her face told me all I needed to know. “She's a fighter, but she's had a serious heart attack, she said. Annie was sleeping. and we waited over an hour before we were allowed in to see her. She looked exhausted but shesmiled when she saw me. 

Nat, it's good to see you,” she said. “And thanks. “It was nothing, Annie. I save lives every day,” I said. Nat, I've been thinking. I may not have much time left. This morning was no surprise. I've had heart trouble for years. Nat, can you find me a lawyer? I want to makea will. ’

I wondered what Annie had to leave anybody aftershe died. Anyway, I agreed to do as she asked. I knew an excellent family lawyer, Wilma Patterson. I called her and she agreed to come over to the hospital that afternoon. This was the beginning of the strange story of two old ladies from the opposite ends of New York society - thehigh life and the low life. Two old ladies who had never met and whose lives were very different. This is the story of how those lives came together. 

Chapter 2 Central Park West

The next morning, my picture was on an inside pageof the Daily News, with the full story. lt read “DyingWoman Saved.” The story began:

“Yesterday, without the quick thinking of privateinvestigator Nat Marley, Annie Clayton, a homeless NewYorker, would have died at Grand Central Station ...” Around eleven o'clock, a messenger arrived with a letter. The address was written in very careful handwriting. I had anew job title:

“To Mr. Nat Marley, Senior Investigator, the MarleyInvestigation Agency. 

“Wow, that makes you look important, Nat!” saidStella. 

The letter was from Mrs. Joanna Whittaker, Apartment1543, Century Apartments, 25 Central Park West. That'sone expensive address, The Century Apartments werethe last of the fashionable apartment buildings completedbefore the Great Depression of the 1930s. The letter read:

Dear Mr: MarleyI have just read about you in the Daily News. I wouldlike your agency to do a special service for me. I need aprofessional. I do not leave my apartment, and I wish to speak tovou in private. The doorman will be expecting you. Youmay call on me any afternoon between 12:00 and 1:00. 

Yours truly, Joanna Whittaker (Mrs. )

“What do you think, Stella?” I asked. “Interesting,” said Stella. Shall we visit the lady? We could go now - nothing'shappening here.” For once. I looked smart. I had put on a clean shirt andmy good jacket, which was just back from the cleaner'sStella was wearing her new suit. We looked like completeprofessionals. 

“Stella. we're taking a cab,” I said. 

“A cab! Sure you're feeling all right?” she asked insurprise. 

I'd never felt better. We could be visiting severalmillion dollars so we had to look cool and fresh, UsuallyI hate spending money on cabs, but if you want to lookgood in July, you don't walk. 

It was 11:30 and the traffic wasn't moving muchquicker than you could walk. I felt sorry for the cabdrivers. We drove slowly across town and up to ColumbusCircle, then uptown along Central Park West to CenturyApartments. One of the best addresses in Manhattan. When we got there I gave my name to the doorman. “Mrs. Whittaker's expecting you Mr. Marley. But I'llhave to warn her first. Don't want the old lady to get tooexcited.” 

He picked up the phone. Nothing for over a minute. ““This could take some time,” the doorman explained. “She sometimes gets confused. Hello. Is this Martha? It's Bob in the lobby. I have some visitors for Mrs. Whittaker ... Yes, Mr. Nathan Marley and his personal assistant Ms. Stella Delgado ... Yes, I'll send them up. 

Inside the elevator, it was all dark wood, thick carpetsand mirrors. If this was just the elevator, imagine whatthe apartments were like. Would I ever live in a place likethis? On my income, only in my dreams. I rang the bellof the apartment and waited. A minute later, I rang again. Eventually the door opened. A large middle-aged woman stared at me unpleasantly

“You Mr. Marley?” she asked. “Yes, ma'am. With my assistant Ms. Stella Delgado.” “Show me your license. I passed her my private investigator's license. “Just a minute,” she said and shut the door in my face.

Another wait. She returned, and without a wordshowed us in to the living room where an old lady was

waiting. “Mr. Marley and Miss Delgado. how do you do? I'm Joanna Whittaker. Do sit down. Martha. tea for ourguests.” 

I looked around the room which was full of beautiful1940s furniture. Nothing had been changed for years andI felt like I was in an old Hollywood movie. I wonderedwho would walk in next- Cary Grant or Joan Crawford? Martha returned with cups and two teapots. She didn'texactly look pleased to receive visitors. Her thick, strongarms held the heavy tea things with no effort at all. “Assam or Darjeeling tea, Mr. Marley?” asked Mrs. Whittaker. 

I wasn't sure of the difference, but I wasn't about toadmit that. 

Assam, thank you, ma'am. Three sugars. 

“Oh good! I like a man with a sweet tooth. Just like my poor husband used to have. And you, Miss Delgado?” 

“Darjeeling, please,” Stella replied. 

My husband took this place when we were married,” said Mrs. Whittaker. “I've lived here ever since. At onetime, this apartment was full of laughter and happiness. But since my poor husband died there's just been myself and Martha. Martha does everything for me -I neverleave the apartment. She's been with the family for years. She's almost part of the furniture.” 

There was a sound of glass breaking in the kitchen. Mrs. Whittaker didn't hear it Someone didn't like beingcalled part of the furniture.

“Do you have any family?” asked Stella. “A son and a daughter. They don't live in the city. Charlie's in Albany and Betty's in Syracuse. I'd like tosee more of them. Especially the grandchildren, but ...” The old lady's eyes filled with tears. Stella took herhand. She knew exactly what to do. I'm no good in

situations like these. Now don't cry, maam. We understand,” said Stella. “Do you? ... I'm sorry, Miss.” “No need to apologize,” I said. ““Thank you. I'm all right,” she said. Then shelooked at me. “Now, Tom,” she said, “let's get down tobusiness.” 

““Tom?” I asked, looking back at her. “Did I say Tom?” she asked. “Oh, silly me! Mymistake. You know, you look so much like my poor deadhusband. Now where was I? Oh, yes, Mr. Marley, I needa lawyer. 

Chapter 3 the will

“Mrs. Whittaker” I said, “I'm not a lawyer.” “I may be old, but I'm not completely stupid,” the oldlady replied. “I want you to find me a lawyer." “Where's the phone book?” I asked. “Ill show youwho to call.” 

“You don't understand. I want you to find a goodlawyer and bring him here. Someone I can trust. It's to dowith my will” 

Mrs. Whittaker opened her handbag and took out apile of hundred-dollar bills. I hadn't seen so much moneyin one place in years. 

“What's your fee, Mr Marley?” 

“It's one thousand dollars a day plus expenses. But notjust now, ma'am. When I finish the job. I wouldn't carryall that money around. It could be dangerous.” 

We left the coolness of the lobby at the CenturyApartments and walked out onto Central Park West. Ifyou don't like the heat, find a bar. Which is what wedid. A short walk through the park to the Tavern on theGreen. Not the sort of place I would choose to drink in. Expensive drinks and too many tourists. But it was close. That's important when it's hot enough to fry an egg onthe sidewalk. 

We sat in a quiet corner with a couple of cold beersand talked about the two women we had just met. “What a way to live!” said Stella. 

“Yeah. Can you imagine it? Never going outside,” ]replied. “As far as I can see, Martha does everything forMrs. Whittaker. She looks as if she's got the strengthStrange woman, though. I wouldn't want to meet Marthaon a dark lonely street.” 

Stella remained silent. I could see she was thinking““There's something very strange about Mrs. Whittaker, too,” she said finally. “She's got family, so why doesn'tshe have her own family lawyer? And I couldnt see anyphotos of her children. Just wedding photos and picturesof her husband. Then she called you “Tom.” Who doesshe think you are? Her husband returned from the dead?” “Who knows whats going on!” I said. “But worryingabout it isn't going to earn us any money. Let's go andfind that lawyer. 

Stella and I went back to the office and I made acall to Wilma Patterson. By three o'clock we had madethe arrangements. We met Wilma back at the CenturyApartments and took the elevator up to the fifteenth floor

Martha showed us in without a word. “Ah, Mr Marley and Miss Delgado. But where is mylawyer?” asked Mrs. Whittaker. Wilma stopped her. “Mrs. Whittaker, I am WilmaPatterson, senior partner of Patterson and Schofield. attorneys-at-law.” 

“I don't believe you!” Mrs. Whittaker said sharply. “Mrs. Whittaker” I said, “Mrs. Patterson is the finestlawyer I know. Trust me.” 

Mrs. Whittaker looked at me doubtfully. I just noddedand smiled. Eventually she relaxed. 

“Well, well. These modern times. I wasnt expecting alady lawyer Now do sit down. You will join me in a glass

of sherry, won't you? Martha!” 

Martha came in with bottles and glasses. She lookedangry. Mrs. Whittaker waved her away to the kitchenwithout so much as a “thank you.” 

“Sweet or dry, Mr. Marley?” she asked. 

I don't drink sherry, but I didn't want to upset Mrs. 

Whittaker. I asked for sweet. 

“A very good choice, Tom,” she said, smiling. “Ohdear! There I go again, calling you Tom. Now Tomalways enjoyed a sweet sherry. And you do too. Now Mr. Marley, if you would wait here with Miss Delgado. I havebusiness to discuss with Mrs. Patterson in the library.” I knew this was going to take time. I made myselfcomfortable and had a couple more sherries. After awhile, Stella fell asleep. I started putting prices on thefurniture in the living room and lost count at $50, 000. An hour later. Wilma returned, looking worried. “Natwe have a problem,” she said. “Mrs. Whittaker wants tomake you rich” 

“Is that a problem?” I asked. 

“It is when the son and daughter don't get a cent. I'vetalked it over with her, but she won't listen. She wantsit all to go to you. She read about you in the papers. Says you remind her of her late husband, Tom. Says shecouldn't think ofa better person to leave everything to.” The door to the kitchen was open. Suddenly there wasthe sound of more glass breaking. Did Martha have a lotof accidents, or was she listening to every word that wasbeing said and didnt like what she heard? 

So what happens now?” I asked. 

In the end, I don't have much choice, said Wilma. “Alawyer has to follow the client's instructions.” 

“I don't like this,” I said. “You've got to speak to thefamily and arrange a meeting. Or else I'm going to be in

the middle of a family war.” “Agreed,” she replied. “But I'm not making anypromises.” 

Wilma went back in the library. Then I heard thesound of someone using an old typewriter. A couplemore sherries later, I was starting to get a headache. lgot up and looked more closely at one of the photos ofTom Whittaker. Forty-something, a little fat, and losinghis hair. Just like me, unfortunately. The sound of typingwent on. At five o'clock, Wilma came out to ask Stellato sign the will as a witness and the doorman was calledfrom downstairs to be the second witness. A few minuteslater, everybody was back in the sitting room. MrsWhittaker looked pleased. 

“Thank you, everybody,” Mrs. Whittaker said. “Mr. Marley, your fee.” 

She gave me a fat envelope. 

“Mrs. Patterson has already given me her bill.” Mrs. 

Whittaker gave Wilma another fat envelope. 

“Now, before you leave, a present for everybody. Martha ... Martha!” 

Martha entered with a pile of large books in herpowerful arms. 

“In memory of my dear husband,” said Mrs. WhittakerI looked at the title: A History of Whittaker Air byTom Whittaker, President. So that was where the familymoney came from. 

“Thank you so much, maam. I'l enjoy reading this, I lied. 

Mrs. Whittaker gave me a big sweet smile. Almost like she was in love. lt frightened me. She took my hand. Herhand was all bone and paper-thin skin. At that point, I justwanted to get out of that apartment and never return. “You'll enjoy living here when I'm gone, Tom,” shesaid. 

Martha was standing behind everybody. She gave MrsWhittaker a long dark look. 

Finally we escaped into the late afternoon heat. Outside, I opened the envelope, two thousand dollars inhundred-dollar bills. Not bad for one day's work. Wilma Patterson looked worried. Nat, once the family finds out about the will, there'sgoing to be trouble," she said. “Don't I know it!” I replied. “You've got to get thefamily talking. Get her to change the will.” “As I said before, I'll try,” Wilma replied. “Thanks,” I said. “I don't want anyone to think I takeadvantage of confused old ladies.” 

Chapter 4 Beneath the city streets

By the time we got back to East 43rd Street, it was pastsix o'clock. No point trying to do any work. I wanderedover to McFadden's Bar on Second Avenue. The usualcrowd of Daily News reporters was there, doing whatthey did best- drinking. 

I needed information and I knew just the guy whocould help - Ed Winchester. He used to be the crimereporter at the Daily News, and he still did some part-timework. Once a reporter, always a reporter. 

“Nat, my old friend!” Ed said when he saw me. “You've arrived at just the right moment.” “Does that mean your glass is empty, Ed?” I asked. and waved to the bartender. “Jack! Sam Adams for meand a drink for Ed." 

It was time for Ed to earn his drink, I told him aboutour strange meeting with Mrs. Whittaker and the businessof the will. I asked what he knew about the family. lknew I could depend on Ed-he had a very long memory. Ed took a drink and said, “Hmm ... Tom Whittaker. Now, he's the guy who started one of the first regular airservices between New York and Chicago in the 1920s. The business became very successful in the 1950s and1960s. Then he sold it. I think it became part of Pan Am. I'll see what else I can find out.” 

“So the family's got money? I asked“Lots of it” Ed said. 

It had been a long day and I was getting a headacheI left and took the number seven train home to Queens. lcouldn't eat much of the takeout meal I got from the dincrdown the block. That night, I lay awake for hours. It wasdawn before I finally fell asleep. In the morning, I didn'tfeel very active. I went off to work like a machine. Nota thought or an idea in my head. Take my advice - avoidNcw York in July. 

When I arrived at the office, Stella was already atwork. Inside, it didn't feel as hot as usual. There were twoelectric fans on her desk. I could see through the door tomy office. Another two fans. 

“Morning, Stella. Where did those fans come from?” Iasked. 

Macy's,” she replied. “I phoned yesterday. They werethe last ones in the store. We were lucky to get themHere's the bill. 

“What's this?” I asked. “Two hundred dollars! Do youthink I'm made of money?” 

“I can't work ifI don't have the fans," said Stella. “Iflcan't work, I don't make you any money. It's as simple asthat.” 

I was about to argue when the phone rang. It was Dr. Fischer at Bellevue Hospital. Annie was asking to see me. Apparently, it was important. When I got to Annie's room, she was sitting up in bed. but she looked awful. There was a visitor with her. “Nat, it's good to see you,” Annie said weakly. “Thisis Lcona, an old fricnd. Lcona, mect Nat. He's going tohelp me with some family business. And before you askNat, I'll pay you somehow.” 

“I wouldn't dream of asking for money, Annie" I said. 

I was there to help out an old friend. Annie was alreadysick enough without knowing what my daily fee was. “A man can't put food on the table by working fornothing,” Annie said. “Nat, I want you to go with LeonaShe's going to take you somewhere you've never beenbefore.” 

In my fifteen years’service with the NYPD, I'd beento most places in New York City. I wondered whereLeona was going to take me, We left the hospital andwalked four blocks west to the subway station on 28thStreet. Then we took an uptown number six train to103rd Street and Lexington. Some New Yorkers nevergo further uptown than 96th Street on the East SideFor them, anywhere north is like a foreign country. At103rd Street, it does feel like another world. There areno expensive stores, good restaurants, or skyscrapersThe only tall buildings are the housing projects, low costapartments built for working people. The people on thestreets are mostly African-American and Latino. “So what's new. Leona?” I asked. “I used to walkthese streets when I was a patrolman.” 

“Just be patient, Nat, she replied. “You ain't seennothing yet.” 

Leona took me across Lexington to an old buildingIt looked empty. But the door opened as soon as Leonaknocked. A big man welcomed Leona, but then lookedat me with a cold stare, pointed, and asked, “What's thisguy doing here?” 

“He's OK” explained Leona. “He's cool. Nats doinga little job for Annie.” 

Leona took me down some steps. At the bottom therewas a hole in the wall and she led me through it. I could hardly see my hand in front of my face. 

“WWhere are we, Lcona?” I asked. 

“Below the streets. This is the city you don't know. 

Careful now, there's a train coming. 

A downtown number five train passed. The light fromthe train windows helped me see where we were - thesubway. There were four train tracks, two uptown andtwo downtown and a narrow path beside the tracksAhead ofus was a subway station, but no lights. “Welcome to our home, Nat,” Leona said. “Thisstation isn't used any more, so we moved in.” 

I'd heard of people living underground in New Yorkbut I'd never seen it for myself I could see a light ahead“Home” was an old, wooden change booth, the type lremember from my childhood. A woman was sitting in anarmchair by the door. 

“Ellie, this guy's a friend. He's helping Annie withsome family business. I'll put some coffee on. 

“You know what?” I said, looking around. “You've gota nice place down here. Better than my place in Queens. You live down here all the time?” I asked. Sure we do, replied Ellie. “Cool in the summer andwe manage to keep warm in the winter. And we don't payrent

“Are you safe down here? 

“We've lived on the streets,” Leona said. “I can tellyou, it's safer underground. Everyone knows each otherhere. If a stranger comes, we know about it. The subwayworkers know us They leave us alone.” 

Leona started moving piles of black plastic bags. Underneath was an old metal box with a lock. Nat” she said“Annie wants you to take this box to her’

Leona took me back up to the street. As I traveled backdowntown to 28th Street, I wondered how many moreunderground communities I was passing on the subway. Back at the hospital, I gave Annie the box. Then shetook out a key that was tied around her neck, unlockedthe box, and showed me a photograph of a cheerfulteenage boy. 

Nat” said Annie, “this is my son, Jackie. I havenseen him in twenty years. I want you to find him.” “I never knew you had family,” I said. You don't know everything about me. I may not havelong to live, Nat, and I want to see him again before I dieWe lived in a housing project in the South Bronx. Not anice area. After leaving home, Jackie used to visit nowand then. Usually to borrow money. I knew he wasn't agood kid, but he's my son. His father was the top man inan office where I once worked as a cleaner. The sort ofguy who tells every woman his wife doesn’t understandhim. I was lonely and we had a good time. He made melaugh, and Jackie's the result.” 

““How old is he now?” I asked. 

“Born in 1954, so about your age,” Annie said. “I lastsaw him in Riker's Island jail in 1979. He'd been stealingcars and getting into fights. It's easy to find the wrongtype of friends in the Bronx. When I visited him in jail, hesaid he never wanted to see me again, It broke my heartFrom that point, my life went to pieces. I was feelingreally low and thats when I started living on the streetsof Manhattan. I had to escape, get out of the Bronx, andforget.” 

“Anything else you can tell me?” I asked

her’

Leona took me back up to the street. As I traveled backdowntown to 28th Street, I wondered how many moreunderground communities I was passing on the subway. Back at the hospital, I gave Annie the box. Then shetook out a key that was tied around her neck, unlockedthe box, and showed me a photograph of a cheerfulteenage boy. 

Nat” said Annie, “this is my son, Jackie. I havenseen him in twenty years. I want you to find him.” “I never knew you had family,” I said. You don't know everything about me. I may not havelong to live, Nat, and I want to see him again before I dieWe lived in a housing project in the South Bronx. Not anice area. After leaving home, Jackie used to visit nowand then. Usually to borrow money. I knew he wasn't agood kid, but he's my son. His father was the top man inan office where I once worked as a cleaner. The sort ofguy who tells every woman his wife doesn’t understandhim. I was lonely and we had a good time. He made melaugh, and Jackie's the result.” 

““How old is he now?” I asked. 

“Born in 1954, so about your age,” Annie said. “I lastsaw him in Riker's Island jail in 1979. He'd been stealingcars and getting into fights. It's easy to find the wrongtype of friends in the Bronx. When I visited him in jail, hesaid he never wanted to see me again, It broke my heartFrom that point, my life went to pieces. I was feelingreally low and thats when I started living on the streetsof Manhattan. I had to escape, get out of the Bronx, andforget.” 

“Anything else you can tell me?” I asked

Chapter 5 Inside information

I got to McFadden's Bar at lunch time. Inside, it wasnoisy and busy, but cool, thanks to the air conditioningI realized I was hungry. I hadn't eaten properly sincebreakfast the day before. I ordered a steak with extra

fries. As I was eating, Jack, the bartender, called me. “Hey, Nat, there's a guy here says you're buying him adrink” I looked up. Ed Winchester was waving an emptyglass. 

“Well, I guess I am, I said. “Over here, Ed. And thishad better be good.” 

“I like doing business this way, said Ed. “You buy medrinks and I find you information. ’

Ed told me he'd been in the Daily News library, reading up about Whittaker Air. It was a good story. TomWhittaker was an interesting guy. He had been a U. S. AirService pilot and was shot down in France in the First World War. He was one of the lucky few who made it home. When he got out of the air service, he bought acouple of ex-air service planes and started flying peoplearound the city. Sightseeing by air. In the late 1920s hestarted an airline business. Flights to Washington andChicago. He saw that the future was air travel. During the1950s the railroads were beginning to lose passengers tothe airlines and Whittaker Air was taking a big share of them. 

“Was he the sort of guy who lived for his work?” I asked. 

Not at all” replied Ed. “He was quite a ladies’man. Look at this: Daily News, 1957.” 

Ed gave me a photocopy of a newspaper story. There was Tom Whittaker at a table in a cocktail bar with three amazing-looking blondes. Each one better built and better looking than Marilyn Monroe. Whittaker looked pleased with himself. I could understand why. 

“Just look at him” said Ed. “He could be your brother. 

“We might look alike,” I said, “but he had everything l don't have. Money and women.” 

Ed went on to tell me that Tom Whittaker worked hardand played hard. Even after he was married he played around with other women. It wasn't a happy marriage and he and Mrs. hittaker probably stayed together for the children. He sold Whittaker Air to Pan Am in the late1960s. Then he spent most of his time on City Island. drinking and fishing. He died in 1974. 

“Goodbye, Tom Whittaker,” I said. 

You're in luck, buddy said Ed. “When she dies, you can afford drinks for everyone.” 

I walked back to East 43rd Street. Stella was busy at the computer when I arrived at the office. 

“Hi, Stella” I said. “'ve just been speaking to Ed.” Don't you mean speaking and drinking?” Stella replied

Yeah. With Ed you cant do one without the other. I told Stella everything I'd learned from Ed. “You know, Nat, it frightens me. Mrs. Whittaker, Martha, that apartment," she said. 

Uh-huh. Like something out of a horror movie. 

You said it” Stella added. “And imagine never going out What sort of life is that? Mrs. Whittakers not right in the head.” 

“She isn't if she's left money to me," I said. “Any clients for me to see?” 

““The phone hasn't rung all day, said Stella. 

“Oh well. I'm going to Century Apartments to seethe one person I know there who's not crazy. Bob the doorman.” 

I arrived at Century Apartments and walked into the lobby. The air conditioning was working perfectly. It was like walking into December. 

“Bob, remember me?” I asked. 

“Ah, Mr. Marley," he said. 

“Call me Nat. I'd like to ask you a few questions about Mrs. Whittaker.” 

“Now, Mr. Marley ... Nat,” he said. “I really should nttalk about our ...” “Would this help?” I asked. 

I showed him my investigator's license. That helped a little. I also showed him a fifty-dollar bill. That helped a lot. 

“Why, thank you," he said. 

How does Mrs. Whittaker get everything she needs?” I asked. 

Martha does some of the shopping, or the stores sencthings to the apartment. Mrs. Whittaker is the type of lady who likes to be looked after.” 

“Does she get many visitors?” “I've been here five years,” Bob said. “In that time, the only visitors I've seen are her son and daughter. Even they've only been here three or four times. The last time I saw them was over two years ago. I remember because they were both angry when they left. The daughter was in tears. Family disagreement or something. 

So Mrs. Whittaker saw nobody except for Martha, I thought. Not a healthy way of life. 

Chapter 6 east village

Now and then the elevator breaks down at the office. This was one of those days. After walking up eight floors I felt hot and uncomfortable. The fans didn't make much difference. Fall couldn't come soon enough. I had phone calls to make. At last, real work – finding a missing person -Annies son, Jackie. My first call was to Police Headquarters. I knew someone who could help. someone I used to work with. That is, if he wasn’t feeling too bad tempered. 

“Get me Captain Oldenberg, will you?” “Marley!” Oldenberg shouted, “I've got enough problems without you calling me.” 

“You don't sound happy in your work,” I said. “Listen. I'm trying to find a missing person, a Jackie Robinson Clayton. He's been in trouble. He was in Riker's Island in1979. He may be working as a cab driver now. Forty-six years old, medium height, the American eagle on his left arm, 

“Anything else?” Oldenberg asked. “Nothing,” I said. “His mother hasn't seen him in twenty years. And Oldenberg, this is a job for an old friend.” 

“OK, Marley” said Oldenberg. “But I'm not lifting a finger in this heat. I'll get Lieutenant Brandstein to do it.” “First thing, I said, “get him to check if the guy's in prison, will you?” 

Next I needed some information from the Daily News I put a call through to Ed Winchester. Luckily, he was back from McFadden's Bar. 

Nat, what can I do for you?” he asked. “I'm trying to find a guy by the name of Jackie Robinson Clayton,” I said. “He's been in trouble, so there might be some news stories on him. I gave Ed the information he needed. I crossed my fingers and hoped he would turn up something. The phone rang as soon as I put it down. Lieutenant Brandstein was doing a good job. Jackie Clayton was not in jail anywhere in the U. S. A. We were doing well. I was beginning to enjoy myself. This was what life as a private investigator should be like. I even forgot how hot it was. Now I needed some extra help. Joe Blaney was just the guy. He was a big tough ex-cop who did work for me sometimes. 

“Joe, it's Nat. Listen, my life is full of old ladies at the moment. I've got a strange client - a Mrs. Joanna Whittaker. And Martha. who lives with her. is even stranger. I need to know more about them.” I gave Joe the story so far with the address and descriptions. “Boss,” Joe said, “You sure do meet some crazy people. 

I spent the next morning looking around the Lower East Side, trying to find Jackie. Often, when you turnover a stone, you find something unpleasant beneath it. It can be the same with families. The more you find out, the more dirt you discover, I was hoping this wasn't going to happen with Jackie. 

No luck at any of the cab companies or bars I visited How far could you get looking for a guy in his mid forties using a photo of him as a teenager? Finally, l found a cab driver on Canal Street in Chinatown who'd heard of Jackic. He told me to try the East Village. I started on Avenues A. B and C, once known as Alphabet City. It was a total waste of time until I got to Vazac's Bar on Avenue B. 

I showed the bartender Jackie's picture. When I told him about the tattoo, I could see he'd heard of him. He gave me a dark look. 

“You a cop or something?” he asked. “No buddy,” I said. “The name's Marley. Just an honest private investigator.” I showed him my license. 

“I don't talk to cops or private eyes, mister,” the bartender said. 

Nice friendly place you got here. A guy could feel very welcome. Do you talk to money?” 

I turned my license round. Behind it was a twenty-dollar bill. As the bartender reached for it, I pulled my hand away. 

Not so fast. What've you got?” I asked. “OK, I know him,” he said. “Haven’t seen him recently. He's got money, but it doesn't come from driving a cab. 

“Oh yeah?” I said. “So where does it all come from?” “Buying what people steal,” he replied. “If you got something hot, go to Jackie. Don't make him angry though -he's tough.” 

“Do you know who he works for? I asked. Do I get my twenty bucks now?” 

Tell me who he works for," I said. 

“Try Wiseman Cabs on Avenue A” said the bartender. 

“Just uptown from Tompkins Square Park.” 

I dropped the twenty-dollar bill onto the bar and walked out. I knew Tompkins Square Park well. When I was a patrolman, the park had been home to most of the homeless of the East Village. They used to call the community “Tent City.” Later, they were moved on. but not without a fight, and the place was cleaned up. L found the cab office. There were a couple of cabs parked outside. I pretended to be a tourist. The guy at the desk gave me a poisonous look. 

“Can you help me, mister?” I asked. “I'm on vacation First visit to the Big Apple. I want to hire a cab for theday so I can do some real sightseeing.” 

The guy behind the desk looked as if he hadn’t slept washed, or shaved for days. He smelled even worse than me. He lit a cigarette then coughed for a full fifteen seconds. Finally, he was able to speak. 

“Mister, we don’t hire cabs out for the day," he said. Hey,” I said. “Is this a cab company or what?” “I repeat, we don't do it. You stupid or something?” One thing was clear. Wiseman Cabs didn't want customers. Certainly not the sort of customers who wanted to hire cabs. They were in another line of business and I wanted to know what. I decided to surprise him. 

“Mr. Wiseman?” I said. 

How do you know my name?” “Could be something to do with the sign outside,” I replied and then continued, “I'm looking for Jackie Clayton.” Oh yeah?” he said. “What do you want with him?” It's private. Family business,” I said. Well it just so happens I'm looking for him too, and when I find him I'll ...” He stopped as if he had said more than he had intended. 

“You’ll do what?” I asked. 

“Get out of here!” Wiseman shouted. “I don't know why I'm talking to you. Don't stick your big nose in here again!

I got the feeling I wasn't welcome any more. left and called Joe Blaney on my cell phone. 

Nat here. What sort of morning have you had, Joe? “Great. Just had coffee and cake with Mrs. Whittaker. “How did you manage that, Joe?” “Easy. I know a guy who runs a flower shop on East28th. I bought some flowers and wrote a note saying From your special friend Nat Marley. ’Then I borrowed his shop coat and pretended I was the guy from the flower shop. That way I got up to the apartment. As soon as l said the flowers were from Mr. Marley the old lady never stopped talking. She thinks you're wonderful.” “I know” I said. “It's troubling, isn't it?” 

““Then I got Mrs. Whittaker talking about her family. She thinks the world of her late husband. I tried to get her to talk about the children but she just said that they won't visit any more. I got her son's phone numbers from the address book on the hall table. Easy.” 

““That's good work, Joe. Now, I've got another job. L want you to watch Wiseman Cabs on Avenue A. Jackie used to work for them. There's something strange going on. They wouldn't let me hire a cab, so want to knowhow they make their money. And get some photos.” 

Joe had given me work and home numbers for Charlie Whittaker. Maybe Wilma Patterson could get the Whittaker family talking. I called her office with the phone numbers. It was early evening before she got back to me. 

Nat? Wilma here. I managed to talk to Charlie Whittaker. He said they used to bring his children to visit until it got too painful. It was the way Mrs. Whittaker kept talking about her late husband, as if he were some kind of god. The truth of the matter is that it was a loveless marriage. Tom never had time for his children. In fact, Charlie says he was like a stranger to them.” “What a way to grow up,” I said. “Charlie Whittaker's agreed to try and set up a family meeting,” Wilma continued. “His mother refuses to talk to him over the phone, so he'll have to visit. All this will take time. And will she agree? It's doubtful.” “Well, this is a fine mess! I said. Don’t blame yourself, Nat.” 

 